# Notes for my presentation at Astrofest

- One sentence summary: This summer, I worked on simulating neutron star collisions in order to examine the growth of the magnetic field in the region of contact during coalescence. We find that the Kelvin-Helmholtz instability magnifies any existing magnetic fields relatively quickly, effectively converting existing kenetic energy into magnetic energy.

- So the collision between neutron stars is broken up into four main phases. So we have the inspiral, when the neutron stars emit a gravitational wave "chirp" as they lose angular momentum. Next, we have a dynamical phase, in which the bodies merge, and accretion and remnant phases, where the collision emits particles and electromagnetic radiation. The issue is that in order to produce radiation on the levels measured, the collision must produce an extremely strong magnetic field. Previous attempts to determine the origin of this field ran GRMHD simulations of the entire collision, and found that a dynamo process is probably responsible for this amplification. However, these approaches are missing part of the picture because they are incapable of resolving the small scales on which the dynamo process works. So for my project, I zoom in and only simulate the early region of contact between the neutron stars, where we see that a Kelvin Helmholtz instability produces an amplified field. My project is still in its early phases, so we only have one simulation so far, but in this first simulation, we see that a the shear instability leads to an exponentially growing magnetic field, who's growth rate is largest when the turbulent energy reaches a maximum, around t=5 for this simulation. So this means that these previous papers are probably right. The goal of this project is eventually to develop a scaling relationship between the maximum magnetic growth rate and the Reynolds number. This means running more simulations at a variety of reynolds numbers. Once this scaling relationship is discovered we will have a better understanding of the coalescence phase of neutron star collisions.
